High Avaliabilty: more than one server
why: if one server got deleted then other server will gives the app

DOCKER SWARM:
its an orchestration tool for containers. 
used to manage multiple containers on multiple servers.
here we create a cluster (group of servers).
in that cluster, we can create same container on multiple servers.
here we have the manager node and worker node.
manager node will create & distribute the container to worker nodes.
worker node's main purpose is to maintain the container.
without docker engine we cant create the cluster.
Port: 2377
worker node will join on cluster by using a token.
manager node will give the token.

SETUP:
create 3 servers
install docker and start the service
hostnamectl set-hostname manager/worker-1/worker-2
Enable 2377 port 

docker swarm init (manager) -- > copy-paste the token to worker nodes
docker node ls

Note: individual containers are not going to replicate.
if we create a service then only containers will be distributed.

SERVICE: it's a way of exposing and managing multiple containers.
in service we can create copy of conatiners.
that container copies will be distributed to all the nodes.

service -- > containers -- > distributed to nodes

http://3.89.143.104:81/
http://18.206.88.169:81/
http://18.206.161.189:81/

docker service create --name movies --replicas 3 -p 81:80 vijaykumar444p/movies:latest
docker service ls		: to list services
docker service inspect movies	: to get complete info of service
docker service ps movies	: to list the containers of movies
docker service scale movies=10	: to scale in the containers
docker service scale movies=3	: to scale out the containers
docker service rollback movies	: to go previous state
docker service logs movies	: to see the logs
docker service rm movies	: to delete the services.

when scale in it follows lifo pattern.
LIFO MEANS LAST-IN FIRST-OUT.

Note: if we delete a container it will recreate automatically itself.
it is called as self healing.


CLUSTER ACTIVIES:
docker swarm leave (worker)	: to make node inactive from cluster
To activate the node copy the token.
docker node rm node-id (manager): to delete worker node which is on down state
docker node inspect node_id	: to get comple info of worker node
docker swarm join-token manager	: to generate the token to join

Note: we cant delete the node which is ready state
if we want to join the node to cluster again we need to paste the token on worker node


DOCKER NETWORKING:
Docker networks are used to make communication between the multiple containers that are running on same or different docker hosts. 

We have different types of docker networks.
Bridge Network		: SAME HOST
Overlay network		: DIFFERENT HOST
Host Network
None network

BRIDGE NETWORK: It is a default network that container will communicate with each other within the same host.

OVERLAY NETWORK: Used to communicate containers with each other across the multiple docker hosts.

HOST NETWORK: When you Want your container IP and ec2 instance IP same then you use host network

NONE NETWORK: When you don’t Want The container to get exposed to the world, we use none network. It will not provide any network to our container.


To create a network: docker network create network_name
To see the list: docker network ls
To delete a network: docker network rm network_name
To inspect: docker network inspect network_name
To connect a container to the network: docker network connect network_name container_id/name
docker exec -it cont1  /bin/bash
apt update
apt install iputils-ping -y : command to install ping checks
ping ip-address of cont2
crtl pq

To disconnect from the container: docker network disconnect network_name container_name
To prune: docker network prune

DATABASE SETUP:
docker run -itd --name dbcont -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=raham123 mysql:9.0.1
docker exec -it dbcont /bin/bash
mysql -u root -p